## Azure Data Factory :hand: fa18-523-84


|          |                        |
| -------- | ---------------------- |
| title    | Azure Data Factory     | 
| status   | 10                     |
| section  | Workflow-Orchestration |
| keywords | Workflow-Orchestration |

Every day bilions of gigabytes of data are generated by sensors, applications and our interactions in the digital world. [@fa18-523-84-bbc-azure-data-factory]  In the age of Big Data companies need a way to process and orgaize the data that is generated by their applications.   Azure Data Factory is a tool that can be used to make sense of this data by collecting data across many sources, orgainzing the data, publishing data and monitoring the data flow. [fa18-523-84-microsoft-azure-data-factory] The first component of Azure Data Factory is to connect data sources.  Second, once the data is collected to a central data store in the cloud it can be transformed for use in business analytics or other applications.  This transformation is done through the use of tools such as HDInsight Hadoop, Spark, Data Lake Analytics, and Machine Learning. [fa18-523-84-microsoft-azure-data-factory] The third component of Azure Data Factory is the ability to publish your transformed data so that business intelligence tools and other applictions can utilize the data.  Finally, Azure Data Factory provides a portal to monitor the data pipeline that has been set up.  The advantage of Azure Data Factory described on the Microsoft website is the 70 data connectors that are available and can be implemented with clicks, not code, in the user interface. [fa18-523-84-microsoft-adf-overview]
